President Jefferson: Now I have been thinking and I think we can send a small party of people across the country to discover and see all the land, creatures and artifacts that are waiting to be studied. They can become friends with the Indians that have different cultures than ours. We can send this party of people to an art class so they can draw a picture of the animals they see. We can also send them to learn how to skin an animal so they can send what they find back to us.

Assistant: Who do you plan on sending President?

President Jefferson: I know exactly who I am going to send. One man and he can pick a partner. This man is brave and can leave an impression on our people. He is a smart man so he shouldn't have any trouble with animals or the Indians he meets.

Assistant: Well, who is he?

President Jefferson: Captain Meriwether Lewis
(END SCENE)



SCENE ONE

President Jefferson: Lewis, I see you have picked Lieutenant William Clark to assist you on this journey. Gentlemen, we have spent many days getting you ready for your trip and I hope you will take all your knowledge and apply it to your trip to your best effort.

Lewis: Yes Sir, I believe I speak for both Clark and I when I say we will do our best to make you and our country happy. We are proud to serve you and our country.

President Jefferson: Thank you Gentlemen. I know you will do great. We will send some other men with you on the journey for the extra help if you need it and when you have discovered many things, we can send them back with those items.
(Lewis and Clark leave and set off on their long journey)
(END SCENE)





SCENE TWO

Lewis: Clark, your slave York is going to serve on this expedition without a choice. Even if he is of a different race.

Clark: I know he will do well. He is a large, strong man. We will make sure he carries his gun and shares the duties and risks of the expedition just like everyone else.

Lewis: He will. He devotes his life to you.

(The Expedition Begins....)

Clark: We need to eat. Go fetch us some food, like deer.

York: But sir, I have no weapon.

Clark: Well why don't you have a weapon?

York: Well Sir, Slaves are not allowed to carry weapons.

Clark: Not on this trip. Take this rifle and bring us back some dinner.

York: Yes, sir.

Clark: Now everyone else...We need firewood. And someone set up our tents.

Other Men: Of course.

(Show York going into the forest hunting and bringing back a deer)

Later on the Expedition…

Clark: I need everybodys attention please! As you can see we are reaching the Pacific ocean and we need to decide on a place to stay during the winter.

Lewis: We are all going to have a vote. That way there is not an argument in it.

York: But sir I must not vote, for I am a black man.

Clark: York you are a member of this expedition so that means you will be taking part in this vote.

York: Yes sir.

Lewis: Okay well why dont we get started.

Clark: I will present my idea first. Then we will here from anybody else who had something to say. And when we are done every one of you will write down which Idea you are for.

Clark: So, I say that we camp out near a village so that way we can make friends and trade goods and then we can find out where the best place to hunt is.

Other Men: hmm. thats a good idea.

Clark: Any other ideas?

York: Well, I was thinking that we could cross the Columbia River and look for a site that would provide hunting, salt-making, and possibly await the arrival of a trading vessel.

Other Men: Also a good idea.

Clark: Any one else with an idea?

One of the Men: None that I can think of.

Lewis: Okay then. Why dont you all put down a tally next to the idea you are for then we will tell you where we will be spending our winter.

(Show every man one by one,including York, go up the paper and write down their vote.)

Lewis: And it seems as the majority voted on Yorks idea. We will be crossing the Delaware river and looking for a site to stay at.

Narrator: When the expedition was over York had something on his mind. He thought to ask Clark…

York: Clark, I was wondering if you could set me free because of my good services that I contributed to the expedition.

Clark: I can not do that, no matter what has happened on the journey you still remain a slave.

York: But couldn’t you at least reward me for all that I contributed to the journey

Clark: No I am sorry but that can not be done.

York: Yes sir, sorry sir.
(END SCENE)




SCENE THREE

Narrator: Lewis and Clark are walking and heading to the Platte River passing big bluestem meadows and cottonwoods along the riverbanks. When they spot…

Lewis: What is that large animal over there?

Clark: Well we are familiar with Wolves in the East but, this seems to be different kind of wolf.

Lewis: What do you mean Clark?

Clark: I think we discovered a subspecies of the Gray Wolf. We shall call it Canis lupus nubilus.

Lewis: Fine with me.

Clark: Let’s take a moment to observe them and watch what they do.

Narrator: Lewis and Clark take accurate notes on the new subspecies they just discovered and the wolf just continues its business.

Lewis: Well it seems that their fur varies in color, ranging from white to black. They have a bushy tail with a black tip. They also seem to be anywhere from 4 feet to 6 feet long.

Narrator: The wolves decided to isolate an antelope from its herd, one that seemed to be wounded, so they could chase it down and eat it.


Clark: It’s like they travel in a pack working together to hunt their food. Did you see that Lewis?

Lewis: No Clark. What happened?

Clark: Well, about 7 of the wolves decided to isolate an antelope from its herd, one that seemed to be wounded, so they could chase it down and eat it.

Lewis: Wow that’s a great way of working together to survive and eat your food.

Clark: Too bad we are so much smarter them because we are man and we can defeat anything we come across.

Lewis: Clark these animals are numerous and they stalk bison and wild turkeys. Why do we want to kill this large beast that doesn’t seem to bark but only howl to each other?

Clark: Lewis what has gotten in to you? We are man, this is an animal. I say we capture it and keep it as a pet.

Lewis: You’re right Clark, I wasn’t thinking straight. Anybody got rope on them?

York: Yes I do. What do you plan on doing?

Lewis: We are going to capture this large dog and keep it as a pet.

Narrator: Lewis and Clark capture a wolf cub and they tie it up. They hand the wolf to York.

Clark: I got one Lewis! It’s only a cub though.

Lewis: That’s okay; it will grow larger some day. Let’s start treating it like a pet now so it will become friends with us and maybe he’ll us along our journey.

Clark: Okay.

Narrator: An hour later…

Lewis: Clark! It seems as though it was much easier to catch a wolf than to keep one! It has gnawed its way through the rope and gone back into the wild.

Clark: Well, this must not disappoint us and we must remember that we can always go back to get another wolf another time because we are capable to do anything we want on this land.

(They continue on their Journey)
(END SCENE)



SCENE FOUR

Lewis: Clark, I figured out an easy way to go about to these tribes.

Clark: Oh, what do you think you could tell them?

Lewis: Well, I think one of us should explain to the tribe that this land belongs to the U.S. and that they have what is to be their "new father", Thomas Jefferson.

Clark: That's a good idea but I think we should give them some sort of peace offering.

Lewis: Yes... but what?

Clark: How about the medals we have of the president on one side and the two hands clasped together on the other?

Lewis: Good Idea, and then we should probably give them some trading goods as well.

Clark: Then I think we should do a sort of parade; maybe shoot off some ammunition and march in our uniforms.

Lewis: Alright, let’s try it.
(END SCENE)



SCENE FIVE

Lewis (to translator): Can you tell this tribe that we would like to hold a meeting with them to discuss about our new land?

(Translator does so)

Clark: My friends, we are here to tell you that the land you are on is owned by the U.S. We are here to make peace and offer you these medals and some of our trade goods. Also we offer "Great Father's Milk"(whiskey)

Narrator: The Indian leader is eager to try this "great father's milk, so he makes it seem as though he understands and accepts this.

Narrator: Lewis, Clark, and their Corps march off after the Indian rituals and fire off their shots.
(END SCENE)



SCENE SIX

Narrator: Indians talk to each other in their language…

Indian Chief: What are these men talking about?

Indian Villager: I don't know I couldn't really understand the translator

Chief: I think he said that these men had bought our land

Villager: They must be insane

Chief: I know, our ancestors have been here for at least 200 years!

Villager: I assume that they will not force us out, or we wouldn't have received gifts from them.

Chief: I know, but if it does get serious, we will fight back.

Villager: Yes, a resistance will be made if problems arrive, but for now let us not burden ourselves with these thoughts

Chief: Yes, and let's enjoy this "Great Father's Milk"
Villager: Did you hear about the Blackfeet tribe?

Chief: Yes, they attacked those men.

Villager: And the men killed two of them and the rest fled.

Chief: Hopefully we will not have to worry about anything like that happening.
(END SCENE)



SCENE SEVEN

Narrator: Lewis and Clark have traveled in a circle and came back to the Prairie dog lands. Clark stops Lewis dead center of the land.

Lewis: Clark, why are there so many holes in the ground?

Clark: This land looks like it is infested with animals. Look at those fat creatures running around. They have short legs and look really fuzzy.

Lewis: Yes. I have never seen these things before. We need to capture one and send it back to President Jefferson!

Clark: Now they may be startled by us, so don't say a word.

Lewis: Okay.

Clark: What did I just say? (Silence)

Lewis: (whispering) How are we supposed too catch that dog like animals? All I see is a river?

Clark: Brilliant! we can use our buckets of water and try to wash them out. ok here lets go to the river and fill up these buckets.

Narrator: They grab tons of buckets of water and dump them in their holes.

Lewis: Nothings happening.

Clark: Keep trying

Narrator: After they are done, prairie dogs run out of their holes and start to run away. Lewis and Clark grab only one live one!

Clark: This was a hard battle, but man conquers all!

Lewis: Wow. We did it! It looks so interesting! We did well today! We discovered 3 more animals!

Clark: Right! We are working at a great speed! If we keep working at this pace, all of the land will be conquered and we will discover a lot more animals and other things.

Lewis: We make a great team Clark!

Clark: Agreed, Lewis. Agreed! Now let’s send 2 men back to Jefferson with the items we have discovered.

Lewis: Yes. We can send back the prairie dog we captured alive in a box. Now let’s call it a night.
(END SCENE)




SCENE EIGHT

Narrator: Now, back with President Jefferson when Lewis and Clark sent back 2 men with all the things they discovered…

President Jefferson: Ahh, yes. Are you the men that were sent by Lewis and Clark? Well, did they find anything interesting? How are they doing on their trip? Are they working at a good pace?

Man 1: Yes President Jefferson. Lewis and Clark are doing a great job.

Man 2: They sent us back with a bear skin and a live little creature. It was amazing how they captured this creature!

President Jefferson: I believe I made an excellent choice picking Lewis and he did an excellent job picking Clark. Those men work great together. Our country will be improved so much and it is all because of them!
(END SCENE)



ENDING

Narrator: 200 Years Later

(city with cars driving by)

Lewis: Look what we helped to create, the land that were searched looks like this now where we bought the Louisiana Purchase.




Clark: Yes, we now have buildings roads cars and still a lot of the same animals but the animals are not spread out and there are less, and they don’t come near humans as easily. 200 years ago there would be Indian tribes and you would see animals running around.

Lewis: During our expedition we did find a lot of information about Indian tribes and animals.

Clark: When we the killed animals we would skin it and then send the skin back to Thomas Jefferson. We took notes on how the animals acted and if the Indians were friendly. It was a good idea to send us but we could have waited to leave if we really wanted to. It was good that Lewis and I were smart brave people with a group of other people also.

Lewis: If we didn’t find out whether or not the tribes were peaceful then someone might have gone into one of the tribes and tried to start a war.

Clark: They could have gone to all the different tribes and tell them we want to have a war. If we had a war with all the Indian tribes we could have lost many more people and it would not have been worth it.

Lewis: Yea, the Indians were good fighters because they were very sly in war and hard to kill. The reason why it was good we killed the animals was because we wanted to find out what animals were vicious or poisonous or just out there to kill you.

Clark: If we didn’t find that out then a group of people could claim some land out there and see an animal that they think looked harmless and end up getting killed. That was a brave move on our part, we probably saved peoples lives.

Narrator: With walking the land that Thomas Jefferson bought from the Louisiana Purchase we have much more information and we can now say that we own the land. Lewis and Clark talked to the Indians and either beat them in war or signed a peace treaty. Lewis and Clark found an Indian that could a lot of Indian languages. Most of Indians knew that either Lewis or Clark own the land and some respected that and some didn’t. It is obvious that they did conquer the land because you don’t see Indians tribes walking around and we take up a lot of room that used to be taken up. It is either taken up by streets cars farms buildings houses and people.
